Memo: 0903
From: Simon de Graaf
Date: Thu Dec 10 10:18:20 CET 2009

Subject: Space technology connect elements

A connect element is used to connect different conductors to each other.
Note that equal conductors have the same conductor number.
However, equal conductors can have a different carrier-type.
For example an active area conductor (scmos process):

conductors :
 # name    : condition     : mask : resval : type
   cond_pa : caa !cpg !csn : caa  : 70     : p    # p+ active area
   cond_na : caa !cpg  csn : caa  : 50     : n    # n+ active area

The two active area conductors "caa" cannot both be in the same tile.
The mask "csn" is used in the condition to make the difference.

Note that the extractor (space) always connect equal conductors
with each other and that space is not testing the carrier-type.
See enumPair, if newerTile gets a subnode in cons[cx], then subnodeCopy
is used if the neighbor tile has a subnode on position cons[cx].
Thus, both subnodes points to the same node.
Note that polnodeCopy is only done when both carrier-type are equal,
else polnodeAdd is done. Thus, one node can have different polnodes.
Note that different polnodes can also be in the same node if there
are contact elements. In that case the node join is ok.

A contact element is used to vertically connect different conductors
to each other.  A contact element has always a contact resistivity.
However, this contact resistivity may have a low resistivity or zero
value or is not used because no resistivity extraction is done.
When the resistivity value is not used, then the nodes of both conductors
are joined with each other (like a vertical connect element).

However, a vertical connect element does not have a resistivity value
and may only be used to connect different conductors which have the
same carrier-type.  Conductors with a different carrier-type (p/n)
form a p/n-junction and can be modelled as diode or capacitor.
In practice, a vertical connect is only possible, if both layers
are directly above each other.

Therefor, a horizontal connect element does not imply also a vertical
connection.

Note that subnodeCopy and subnodeJoin are used for joining conductors
in the horizontal situation (for conductors with the same numbers).
However, the subnodeJoin function can be used for the vertical situation
because of a vert./hor. connect element or a contact element.

